DOCSP-30507: Quick Reference (#31)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/quick-reference.txt

.. _rust-quick-reference:

===============
Quick Reference
===============

> This page shows the driver syntax for several MongoDB commands and links to
> their related reference and API documentation. 

Reviewer: S: this description could be more descriptive. It also should contain some explanation on the runtimes (create a TODO to link to the future runtimes guide, but in the meantime you can briefly explain the difference).

```suggestion
On this page, you can see examples for how to perform several common tasks by using the {+driver-short+}.
Each row of the following table describes the task, shows the driver syntax to execute the task, and includes links to the related reference and API documentation.
```

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 75

   * - Command
     - Syntax 

   * - | **Find a Document**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.find_one>`__
       | Usage Example

>        | :ref:`Fundamentals <rust-retrieve-guide>`

Reviewer: applies everywhere

>      - *Async Driver*

Reviewer: S: applies to all: this suggests that there are two drivers, when the difference is just the runtime

```suggestion
     - *Async Runtime*
```

Reviewer: applies to the sync header too!

          let mut cursor = collection.find(filter, None)?;

   * - | **Insert a Document**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.insert_one>`__ 
       | Usage Example
       | :ref:`Fundamentals <rust-insert-guide>`

     - *Async Driver*
     
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true

          let doc = doc! {
              "title": "Mistress America", "type": "movie"
          };

          let result = collection.insert_one(doc, None).await?;

       *Sync Driver*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true

          let doc = doc! { 
              "title": "Mistress America", "type": "movie" 
          };

          let result = collection.insert_one(doc, None)?;

   * - | **Insert Multiple Documents**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.insert_many>`__ 
       | Usage Example
       | :ref:`Fundamentals <rust-insert-guide>`

     - *Async Driver*
 
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true

          let docs = vec![
              doc! { "title": "Friends With Money", "runtime": 88 },

>               doc! { "title": "The Land of Steady Habits", "runtime": 98 },

Reviewer: S: shorten this title to prevent horizontal scroll

              doc! { "title": "You Hurt My Feelings", "runtime": 93 },
          ];

          let result = collection.insert_many(docs, None).await?;

       *Sync Driver*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true

          let docs = vec![
              doc! { "title": "Friends With Money", "runtime": 88 },
              doc! { "title": "The Land of Steady Habits", "runtime": 98 },
              doc! { "title": "You Hurt My Feelings", "runtime": 93 },
          ];

          let result = collection.insert_many(docs, None)?;

   * - | **Update a Document**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.update_one>`__
       | Usage Example
       | :ref:`Fundamentals <rust-change-guide>`

     - *Async Driver*
      
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true

          let filter_doc = doc! { "title": "Burn After Reading"};
          let update_doc =
              doc! {
                  "$set": doc!{ "num_mflix_comments": 1 }
          };

>           let result = collection.update_one(filter_doc, update_doc, None).await?;

Reviewer: S: format to new line parameters to prevent horiz scroll

Reviewer: In general, review code to see where it can be formatted to reduce/remove scroll

       | :ref:`Fundamentals <rust-delete-guide>`

     - *Async Driver*
       
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true

          let filter = doc! { "title": "Search and Destroy" };
          let result = collection.delete_one(filter, None).await?;

       *Sync Driver*

       .. code-block:: rust
        :copyable: true

        let filter = doc! { "title": "Search and Destroy" };
        let result = collection.delete_one(filter, None)?;
          
   * - | **Delete Multiple Documents**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.delete_many>`__ 
       | Usage Example
       | :ref:`Fundamentals <rust-delete-guide>`

     - *Async Driver*
       
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! {
              "year": doc! { "$lt": 1920 } 
          };

          let result = collection.delete_many(filter, None).await?;

       *Sync Driver*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! { 
              "year": doc! { "$lt": 1920 } 
          };

          let result = collection.delete_many(filter, None)?;

>    * - | **Access Data from a Cursor Iteratively**

Reviewer: S: add another section to show how to access a cursor as an array. see #28 for the code

Author: added!

          let mut cursor = collection.find(
              doc! { "$and": vec!
                  [
                      doc! { "metacritic": doc! { "$gt": 90 } },
                      doc! { "directors": vec! [ "Martin Scorsese" ] }
                  ] },
              None
          )?;

          while let Some(result) = cursor.try_next()? {
              let doc: Document = bson::from_document(result)?;
              println!("{}", serde_json::to_string_pretty(&doc).unwrap());
          }

   * - | **Count Documents**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.count_documents>`__
       | Usage Example
       | Fundamentals

     - *Async Driver*
       
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! {
              "languages": vec! [ "Mandarin" ] 
          };

          let result = collection.count_documents(filter, None).await?;

       *Sync Driver*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! {
              "languages": vec! [ "Mandarin" ]
          };

          let result = collection.count_documents(filter, None)?;

>    * - | **List the Distinct Documents or Field Values**

Reviewer: S: this title is confusing - I think `distinct()` just gets distinct field values
```suggestion
   * - | **List Distinct Values of a Field**
```

     - *Async Runtime*
       
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! {
              "year": doc! { "$lt": 1920 } 
          };

          let result = collection.delete_many(filter, None).await?;

       *Sync Runtime*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! { 
              "year": doc! { "$lt": 1920 } 
          };

          let result = collection.delete_many(filter, None)?;

   * - | **Access Data from a Cursor Iteratively**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Cursor.html>`__ 
       | Usage Example
       | :ref:`Fundamentals Guide <rust-cursor-guide>`

     - *Async Runtime*
      
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
            
          let mut cursor = collection.find(
              doc! { "$and": vec!
                  [
                      doc! { "metacritic": doc! { "$gt": 90 } },
                      doc! { "directors": vec! [ "Martin Scorsese" ] }
                  ] },
              None
          ).await?;

          while let Some(result) = cursor.try_next().await? {

>               let doc: Document = bson::from_document(result)?;
>               println!("{}", serde_json::to_string_pretty(&doc).unwrap());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
              println!("{}", result);
```

`unwrap` panics on failure. `?` returns an error. Suggest using consistent error handling.

The type of `collection` is not shown. If it is `Collection<Document>`, I expect `serde_json` is not needed to print.

          };

       *Sync Runtime*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
            
          let mut cursor = collection.find(
              doc! { "$and": vec!
                  [
                      doc! { "metacritic": doc! { "$gt": 90 } },
                      doc! { "directors": vec! [ "Martin Scorsese" ] }
                  ] },
              None
          )?;

          while let Some(result) = cursor.try_next()? {
              let doc: Document = bson::from_document(result)?;

>               println!("{}", serde_json::to_string_pretty(&doc).unwrap());

Author: thank you, example has been updated!

          let result: Vec<Document> = cursor.try_collect()?;

   * - | **Count Documents**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.count_documents>`__
       | Usage Example
       | Fundamentals Guide

     - *Async Runtime*
       
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! {
              "languages": vec! [ "Mandarin" ] 
          };

          let result = collection.count_documents(filter, None).await?;

       *Sync Runtime*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let filter = doc! {
              "languages": vec! [ "Mandarin" ]
          };

          let result = collection.count_documents(filter, None)?;

   * - | **List Distinct Values of a Field**
       |
       | `API Documentation <https://docs.rs/mongodb/latest/mongodb/struct.Collection.html#method.distinct>`__
       | Usage Example
       | Fundamentals Guide

     - *Async Runtime*
       
       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let field_name = "title";
          let filter = doc! {
              "directors": vec! [ "Sean Baker" ]
          };

>           let mut cursor = collection.distinct(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          let results = collection.distinct(
```

Suggest renaming since `distinct` returns `Result<Vec<Bson>>` (not `Cursor`).

                field_name, filter, None
            ).await?;

       *Sync Runtime*

       .. code-block:: rust
          :copyable: true
 
          let field_name = "title";
          let filter = doc! {
              "directors": vec! [ "Sean Baker" ]
          };

>           let mut cursor = collection.distinct(
>                 field_name, filter, None
>             )?;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          let results = collection.distinct(
                field_name, filter, None
            )?;
```

Suggest renaming since `distinct` returns `Result<Vec<Bson>>` (not `Cursor`).

.. _rust-quick-reference:

===============
Quick Reference
===============

> On this page, you can see examples for how to perform several common
> tasks by using the {+driver-short+}. Each row of the following table

Reviewer: S: this sentence is trying to fit a lot of stuff in, and i'm not sure the flow is the easiest to understand atm.

What do you think about something like:
```suggestion
On this page, you can see examples that use the {+driver-short+} to perform
several common MongoDB tasks . Each row of the following table
```
or 
```suggestion
On this page, you can see how to use the {+driver-short+} to perform several common
MongoDB tasks. Each row of the following table
```

Author: I like the first rewording option you gave! fixed

describes the task, shows the driver syntax to execute the task, and
includes links to the related reference and API documentation.

The {+driver-short+} contains an async runtime that supports either ``tokio``
or ``async-std``, depending on the feature flags set. The driver also has a
sync runtime enabled with the ``"sync"`` or ``"tokio-sync"`` feature flag.
For each task listed in the following table, you can find an example of both

> the async and sync runtime syntax.

Reviewer: S: I'm not sure that we are describing the runtime concept correctly here. As far as I understand, you run operations using a specific runtime. You can select a specific runtime to build a sync/async application. 

Things to think about/change
- You can execute operations by using either an asynchronous or synchronous runtime. 
- The Rust driver supports both of the most popular async runtime crates, `tokio` and `async-std`.
- The Rust driver supports both of the most popular sync runtime crates, `tokio-sync` and `sync `
- We'll have a guide on how to configure all of those runtimes in the future. For now, though, you dont need to name the specific crates.

Author: Rewrote this section with your info in mind:)

> For each task listed in the following table, you can find an example of both
> the async and sync runtime syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each MongoDB task listed in the following table, you can see examples that use both
the async and sync runtimes.
```

Author: Different wording but fixed
